Update the ReadMe, frame Documentation, and License info of the repo (#32)
robotology/walking-teleoperation: docs/FrameDescriptions.md

**Following you can find the descriptions of the frames used by different devices in teleoperation framework:**

## Inertial Frame

> We define the inertial frame in the human side as following:

Reviewer: Maybe we can specify that this frame is fixed and we assume it to be in a specific position and orientation (e.g. corresponding to the person head at startup, oriented with the x pointing forward and the z pointing upward, or something more formal)

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/InertialFrame.jpg">
</p>

## Oculus Device

> According to the [Oculus documentation](https://developer.oculus.com/documentation/native/pc/dg-sensor/), the frames attached to the Oculus Virtual Reality (OVR) headset are as following:

Reviewer: What are the frames? Down below only one is described.

- X is positive to the right.
- Z is positive heading backwards.
Rotation is maintained as a unit quaternion, but can also be reported in yaw-pitch-roll form. Positive rotation is counter-clockwise.
```
However, the custom they have used for defining the euler angles and their composition order are different from ours.
[Following line of code](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/master/modules/Oculus_module/src/OculusModule.cpp#L386-L389
) provides us the rotation from [inertial frame](#inertial-frame) (attached to the human head at the begning) to the oculus headset at timestep `t` expressed in preferred coordinate system:

```
iDynTree::toEigen(m_oculusRoot_T_headOculus).block(0, 0, 3, 3)
                = iDynTree::toEigen(iDynTree::Rotation::RPY(-desiredHeadOrientationVector(1),
                                                            desiredHeadOrientationVector(0),
                                                            desiredHeadOrientationVector(2)));
```                                                           

<p align="center">
  <img width="500" height="500" src="./images/Oculus.png">
</p>

## treadmill (Virtualizer Cyberith)

> According to the measurement information we acquire from the cyberith treadmill, we identify the frame of Virtualizer as following:

Reviewer: I think that the image at this stage is a bit confusing because it is not clear what the frame of the Virtualizer is. Down below you explained well how the rotation of the virtualizer is obtained. I would suggest moving this image after the explanation.

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/virtualizerFrame.jpg">
</p>

Threfore [we have:](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/60b449e6e8d5120a2a11ca2997521f46c51821c1/modules/Oculus_module/src/HeadRetargeting.cpp#L105)

```
m_oculusInertial_R_teleopFrame = iDynTree::Rotation::RotZ(-playerOrientation);
```

> The rotation of the operator (called player here) inside the treadmill is defined with `playerOrientation`, and the rotation of it is expressed in preferred coordinates of the `I_treadmill`. In order to express the rotation in [inertial coordinates](#inertial-frame) (in the code is mentioned by `oculusInertial`), we perform the following transformation

Reviewer: Why `I_treadmill`? It may be confusing as it is not an inertial frame.

Reviewer: Or maybe it is, I am confused :grin: 

Side question: what does it mean "preferred coordinates"?

Author: You are confused, it is an inertial frame :)
I fixed the terminology, and I am not using it here anymore.
 But in any case, in `B^R_A` the rotation from `A` to `B` (`B` wrt `A`),  the coordinates associated with the `A` and `B` frames are called the preferred coordinates.

```
 rotz(- playerOrientation)= rotx(pi) * rotz(playerOrientation) * rotx(-pi)
```

> When the human rotates inside the virtualizer, not only he has rotation around `z` axis, but also the _teleoperaition frame_  translates as following figure shows:

Reviewer: Note that the _teleoperation frame_ is not defined here. Also, there is a typo "teleoperaition"

Author: done

<p align="center">
  <img width="
  <img width="300" src="./images/teleoperationFrameTransformation.jpg">
</p>

To find the translation, we assume when the human rotates, he is looking forward, and we compute the translation using the acquired oculus headset data.

# Hand Frames

The human and robot hand frames are defined similarly,i.e.,

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/RobotHand.jpeg">
</p> 

> What we are interested in the teleoperation scnenario is the transfromation `m_teleopRobotFrame_T_handRobotFrame`, i.e., [the transformation from the rorobt teleoperation frame to the robot hand frames](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/60b449e6e8d5120a2a11ca2997521f46c51821c1/modules/Oculus_module/src/HandRetargeting.cpp#L74-L77)

Reviewer: Some typos:
- "scnenario"
- "transfromation"
- "rorobt"

Author: All the text has been proofread and typos are fixed.

```
    m_teleopRobotFrame_T_handRobotFrame
        = m_teleopRobotFrame_T_teleopFrame * m_oculusInertial_T_teleopFrame.inverse()
          * m_oculusInertial_T_handOculusFrame * m_handOculusFrame_T_handRobotFrame;

```
- In this equation, `teleopRobotFrame` and `teleopFrame` are the frames attached to robot and human teleoperation frames. 

- In the code, the `oculusInertial` and `oculusRoot` frames are the intertial frame defined at the begining of this document.
- The teleoperation frame, is the frame that attached to the virtualizer and rotates with that. At the initial time of the teleoperation scenario, the teleoperation and inertial frame matches their location and their axes are parallel.

> However, the defenition of the robot teleoperation frame is the same as [robot imu fram ](https://github.com/kouroshD/walking-teleoperation/blob/feature/updateDocs/app/robots/iCubGenova04/leftHandRetargetingParams.ini#L6-L10), and is similar to the robot `root_link` frame:

Reviewer 2: Typo. `Robot imu fram`

> However, the defenition of the robot teleoperation frame is the same as [robot imu frame ](https://github.com/kouroshD/walking-teleoperation/blob/feature/updateDocs/app/robots/iCubGenova04/leftHandRetargetingParams.ini#L6-L10), and is similar to the robot `root_link` frame:

Reviewer: "defenition"

Author: again, done.

```
- The z-axis is parallel to gravity but pointing upwards.
- The x-axis points behind the robot.
- The y-axis points laterally and is chosen according to the right-hand rule.
```

## Frame Chains:

Following is the frame chain related to the perception system of the human:

<p align="center">
  <img width="800" src="./images/TeleoperationFrameChains.jpg">
</p> 

## Xsens Suit
When using full body suit to teleoperate the robot, following are the frames attached to the human body links:

<p align="center">
  <img width="650" src="./images/humanXses.png">
</p> 

Following are the frames attached to the iCub body links:

<p align="center">
  <img width="500"  src="./images/RobotFrames.png">
</p> 

When we do retargeting using Xsens, each of these frames of the human (where the data are coming) are transformed to the corresponding ones of the robot.

For more information regarding the correspondence of the frames you can look at [this configuration file](https://github.com/robotology/human-dynamics-estimation/blob/devel/conf/xml/RobotStateProvider_iCub.xml).

> Regarding the transformation of the frames, you can find them [in this urdf file](), and the tranformation are done from the parent link (each link_name) to the child dummy link specified by `_fake`, e.g., [from `root_link` to `root_link_fake`](https://github.com/robotology/human-dynamics-estimation/blob/devel/conf/urdfs/teleoperation_iCub_model_V_2_5.urdf#L3341-L3353).

Reviewer 2: Link missing. `in this urdf file`

**This documentation provides the description of the frames and devices associated with the teleoperation framework:**

## Inertial Frame

> We define the inertial frame in the human side as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We define the inertial frame on the human side as follows:
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/InertialFrame.jpg">
</p>

> In the code, the `oculusInertial` and `oculusRoot` are used for calling the inertial frame. It is identified at the beginning of the teleoperation scenario. The `x` and `y` axis are parallel to the ground surface, while the `z` axis (heading) is identified according to the front of the human when starting the teleoperation processes.

Reviewer: > while the `z` axis (heading) is identified according to the front of the human when starting the teleoperation processes.

Isn't this description of the `x` axis?

Reviewer: It seems to me that you are mixing "axis" with "coordinates" then 🤔

## Oculus Device

> According to the [Oculus documentation](https://developer.oculus.com/documentation/native/pc/dg-sensor/), the frame attached to the Oculus Virtual Reality (OVR) headset is as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the [Oculus documentation](https://developer.oculus.com/documentation/native/pc/dg-sensor/), the frame attached to the Oculus Virtual Reality (OVR) headset is as follows:
```

```
The x-z plane is aligned with the ground regardless of camera orientation.
As seen from the diagram, the coordinate system uses the following axis definitions:
- Y is positive in the up direction.
- X is positive to the right.
- Z is positive heading backwards.
Rotation is maintained as a unit quaternion, but can also be reported in yaw-pitch-roll form. Positive rotation is counter-clockwise.
```
However, the custom they have employed for defining the Euler angles and their composition order is different from ours.

> [Following line of code](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/master/modules/Oculus_module/src/OculusModule.cpp#L386-L389

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following [line of code](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/master/modules/Oculus_module/src/OculusModule.cpp#L386-L389
```

) provides us with the rotation from [inertial frame](#inertial-frame) (attached to the human head at the beginning) to the Oculus headset at timestep `t` expressed in the preferred coordinate system:

```
iDynTree::toEigen(m_oculusRoot_T_headOculus).block(0, 0, 3, 3)
                = iDynTree::toEigen(iDynTree::Rotation::RPY(-desiredHeadOrientationVector(1),
                                                            desiredHeadOrientationVector(0),
                                                            desiredHeadOrientationVector(2)));
```                                                           

<p align="center">
  <img width="500" height="500" src="./images/Oculus.png">
</p>

## treadmill (Virtualizer Cyberith)

> According to the measurement information we acquire from the Cyberith treadmill, we identify the inertial frame of Virtualizer as following. The rotation of the operator (called player here) inside the treadmill is defined with `playerOrientation`, and the rotation of it is expressed in coordinates associated with `I_treadmill`. In order to express the rotation in [inertial coordinates](#inertial-frame) (in the code is mentioned by `oculusInertial`), we perform the following transformation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the measurement information we acquire from the Cyberith treadmill, we identify the inertial frame of Virtualizer as follows. The rotation of the operator (called player here) inside the treadmill is defined with `playerOrientation`, and the rotation of it is expressed in coordinates associated with `I_treadmill`. In order to express the rotation in [inertial coordinates](#inertial-frame) (in the code is mentioned by `oculusInertial`), we perform the following transformation
```

```
 rotz(- playerOrientation)= rotx(pi) * rotz(playerOrientation) * rotx(-pi)
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/virtualizerFrame.jpg">
</p>

> The frame attached to the treadmill ring and rotates with the treadmill is called the _teleoperaiton frame_. At the beginning of the teleoperation scenario when we start the processes, the teleoperation and inertial frame coincide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The frame attached to the treadmill ring, which rotates with the treadmill, is called the _teleoperaiton frame_. At the beginning of the teleoperation scenario, when we start the processes, the teleoperation and inertial frame coincide.
```

Therefore, [we have:](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/60b449e6e8d5120a2a11ca2997521f46c51821c1/modules/Oculus_module/src/HeadRetargeting.cpp#L105)

```
m_oculusInertial_R_teleopFrame = iDynTree::Rotation::RotZ(-playerOrientation);
```

> When the human rotates inside the virtualizer, not only he has rotation around the `z` axis, but also the _teleoperaition frame_  translates as the following figure shows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the human rotates inside the virtualizer, not only he has a rotation around the `z` axis, but also the _teleoperaition frame_  translates as the following figure shows:
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="
  <img width="300" src="./images/teleoperationFrameTransformation.jpg">
</p>

> To find the translation, we assume when the human rotates, he is looking forward, and [we compute the translation using the acquired oculus headset data](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/5ae5a89e504a985528d5263467f806e806f78d37/modules/Oculus_module/src/OculusModule.cpp#L647-L657).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the translation, we assume that when the human rotates, he is looking forward, and [we compute the translation using the acquired oculus headset data](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/5ae5a89e504a985528d5263467f806e806f78d37/modules/Oculus_module/src/OculusModule.cpp#L647-L657).
```

# Hand Frames

The human and robot hand frames are defined similarly, i.e.,

<p align="center">
  <img width="300" src="./images/RobotHand.jpeg">
</p> 

What we are interested in the teleoperation scenario is the transformation `m_teleopRobotFrame_T_handRobotFrame`, i.e., [the transformation from the robot teleoperation frame to the robot hand frames](https://github.com/robotology/walking-teleoperation/blob/60b449e6e8d5120a2a11ca2997521f46c51821c1/modules/Oculus_module/src/HandRetargeting.cpp#L74-L77)
```
    m_teleopRobotFrame_T_handRobotFrame
        = m_teleopRobotFrame_T_teleopFrame * m_oculusInertial_T_teleopFrame.inverse()
          * m_oculusInertial_T_handOculusFrame * m_handOculusFrame_T_handRobotFrame;

```
- In this equation, `teleopRobotFrame` and `teleopFrame` are the frames attached to the robot and human teleoperation frames. 

> - In the code, both the `oculusInertial` and `oculusRoot` frames are the inertial frame defined at the beginning of this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the code, both the `oculusInertial` and `oculusRoot` frames correspond to the inertial frame defined at the beginning of this document.
```

> - The teleoperation frame is the frame that attached to the virtualizer and rotates with that. At the initial time of the teleoperation scenario, the teleoperation and inertial frame match their location and their axes are parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The teleoperation frame is the frame attached to the virtualizer and rotating with that. At the initial time of the teleoperation scenario, the teleoperation and inertial frame match their location and their axes are parallel.
```

However, the definition of the robot teleoperation frame is the same as [robot imu frame ](https://github.com/kouroshD/walking-teleoperation/blob/feature/updateDocs/app/robots/iCubGenova04/leftHandRetargetingParams.ini#L6-L10), and is similar to the robot `root_link` frame:
```
- The z-axis is parallel to gravity but pointing upwards.
- The x-axis points behind the robot.
- The y-axis points laterally and is chosen according to the right-hand rule.
```

## Frame Chains:

Following is the frame chain related to the perception system of the human:

<p align="center">
  <img width="800" src="./images/TeleoperationFrameChains.jpg">
</p> 

## Xsens Suit
When using the full-body suit to teleoperate the robot, the following are the frames attached to the human body links:

<p align="center">
  <img width="650" src="./images/humanXses.png">
</p> 

> Following are the frames attached to the iCub body links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shows the frames attached to the iCub body links:
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="500"  src="./images/RobotFrames.png">
</p> 

> When we retarget using Xsens, each of the frames associated with the human links (where the data are coming) are transformed to the corresponding ones of the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we retarget using Xsens, each of the frames associated with the human links (measured via the suit) is transformed into the corresponding one on the robot.
```

The subject is "each".
